DOCS-3944: Restructure motion docs (#4279)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/operate/mobility/motion-concepts.md

---

> title: "Motion planning concepts"
> linkTitle: "Motion concepts"

Author: ```suggestion
title: "Motion planning basics"
linkTitle: "Motion basics"
```

weight: 8
type: "docs"
layout: "docs"

> description: "Learn what you can do with Viam's motion planning tools."

Author: ```suggestion
description: "Learn what you can do with Viam's motion planning tools."
date: "2025-05-21"
# updated: ""
```

---

Viam's motion planning tools allow you to automate the intelligent movement of your machines.
You can:

- Plan coordinated motion of multiple components
- Avoid obstacles
- Constrain the orientation of an arm's end effector
- Give GPS waypoints to a mobile robot

For example, instead of sending individual commands to each motor of a robotic arm, you can use one motion planning command to move the arm smoothly to a specific position while avoiding obstacles and keeping a gripper upright.

## Supported components

You can move the following components with the [motion service](/operate/reference/services/motion/):

{{< cards >}}
{{% relatedcard link="/operate/reference/components/arm/" %}}
{{% relatedcard link="/operate/reference/components/base/" %}}
{{% relatedcard link="/operate/reference/components/gantry/" %}}
{{% relatedcard link="/operate/reference/components/gripper/" %}}

> {{< /cards >}}

Author: Yes you can move these components with the motion service

You can use the following components to augment motion planning and navigation:

- [Camera](/operate/reference/components/camera/)
  - For example, a [RealSense depth camera](https://app.viam.com/module/viam/realsense)
- [Movement sensor](/operate/reference/components/movement-sensor/)
  - For example, a [GPS](https://app.viam.com/module/viam/gps)

## The frame system

Viam's [frame system](/operate/reference/services/frame-system/) is a way to describe the spatial relationship between the components in your robot.
The motion service uses the frame system to plan the motion of components.

> For example, if you command an arm to move to coordinates of `(300, 0, 0)` millimeters, this has no meaning unless you have defined where the origin `(0, 0, 0)` of the coordinate system is, as well as which directions correspond to the x, y, and z axes.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, if you want to command an arm to move to coordinates of `(300, 0, 0)` millimeters, you first need to define the origin `(0, 0, 0)` of the coordinate system and the directions of the x, y, and z axes to give those coordinates meaning.
```
